_portfolio/portfolio-10.md, before:

---
title: "Portfolio item number 10"
excerpt: "New limiter regions for incompressible flow  <br/><img src='/images/Limiters_2.png'>"
collection: portfolio
---
The following limiting regimes were proven sufficient for a discrete local maximum principle, applicable for C-grid algorithms.
<br/><img src='/images/Limiters_2.png'>
**Woodfield, J.**, Weller, H., & Cotter, C. J. (2024). New limiter regions for multidimensional flows. *Journal of Computational Physics*, 515(113286), 113286. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2024.113286](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2024.113286)

Update formula:

$$
u_{i,j}^{n+1} 
= u_{i,j}^n 
- \Big[ 
   F_{i+0.5}\!\left(u_i^R, u_{i+1}^L, c_{i+0.5}^n\right) 
 - F_{i-0.5}\!\left(u_{i-1}^R, u_i^L, c_{i-0.5}^n\right) 
  \Big]
- \Big[ 
   F_{j+0.5}\!\left(u_j^U, u_{j+1}^D, c_{j+0.5}^n\right) 
 - F_{j-0.5}\!\left(u_{j-1}^U, u_j^D, c_{j-0.5}^n\right) 
  \Big].
$$

Reconstructions:

$$
\begin{aligned}
u_i^R &= u_i + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_i) \, (u_i - u_{i-1})
        + \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_i}\right)(u_{i+1} - u_i), \\[3pt]
u_i^L &= u_i + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_i}\right)(u_i - u_{i+1})
        - \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_i)(u_i - u_{i-1}), \\[3pt]
u_j^U &= u_j + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_j)(u_j - u_{j-1})
        + \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_j}\right)(u_{j+1} - u_j), \\[3pt]
u_j^D &= u_j + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_j}\right)(u_j - u_{j+1})
        - \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_j)(u_j - u_{j-1}), \\[3pt]
R_i &= \frac{u_{i+1}-u_i}{u_i - u_{i-1}}, 
\quad R_j = \frac{u_{j+1}-u_j}{u_j - u_{j-1}} .
\end{aligned}
$$

Fluxes:

$$
\begin{aligned} 
F\left(u_i^R, u_{i+1}^L, c_{i+0.5}\right) &= c_{i+0.5}^{+} u_i^R + c_{i+0.5}^{-} u_{i+1}^L, \\
F\left(u_{i-1}^R, u_i^L, c_{i-0.5}\right) &= c_{i-0.5}^{+} u_{i-1}^R + c_{i-0.5}^{-} u_i^L, \\
F\left(u_j^U, u_{j+1}^D, c_{j+0.5}\right) &= c_{j+0.5}^{+} u_j^U + c_{j+0.5}^{-} u_{j+1}^D, \\
F\left(u_{j-1}^U, u_j^D, c_{j-0.5}\right) &= c_{j-0.5}^{+} u_{j-1}^U + c_{j-0.5}^{-} u_j^D.
\end{aligned}
$$

There are two new limiter regions for incompressible flow. Strictly greater than the Sweby region, Strictly contained by the Spekreijse limiter region (which is provably Discrete maximum principle violating for general incompressible flow using a flux form C-grid style implmentation). 

These limiting regions are plotted in <br/><img src='/images/Limiters_2.png'
 and one can define new limiting functions $\psi$ in these regions (depending on $\theta=0,1$) for more accurate, compressible or smooth limiter functions. 

 Define your own limiter function using desmos:
 [https://www.desmos.com/calculator/zxxr80vkyf](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/zxxr80vkyf)

 <iframe src="https://www.desmos.com/calculator/zxxr80vkyf?embed" width="500" height="500" style="border: 1px solid #ccc" frameborder=0></iframe>

Commit message:

Update limiter region explanation and add comments
Clarified the description of limiter regions for incompressible flow, specifying dependence on theta and the possibility of defining new limiter functions. Added commented-out image references for future use.

_portfolio/portfolio-10.md, after:

---
title: "Portfolio item number 10"
excerpt: "New limiter regions for incompressible flow  <br/><img src='/images/Limiters_2.png'>"
collection: portfolio
---
The following limiting regimes were proven sufficient for a discrete local maximum principle, applicable for C-grid algorithms.
<br/><img src='/images/Limiters_2.png'>
**Woodfield, J.**, Weller, H., & Cotter, C. J. (2024). New limiter regions for multidimensional flows. *Journal of Computational Physics*, 515(113286), 113286. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2024.113286](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2024.113286)

Update formula:

$$
u_{i,j}^{n+1} 
= u_{i,j}^n 
- \Big[ 
   F_{i+0.5}\!\left(u_i^R, u_{i+1}^L, c_{i+0.5}^n\right) 
 - F_{i-0.5}\!\left(u_{i-1}^R, u_i^L, c_{i-0.5}^n\right) 
  \Big]
- \Big[ 
   F_{j+0.5}\!\left(u_j^U, u_{j+1}^D, c_{j+0.5}^n\right) 
 - F_{j-0.5}\!\left(u_{j-1}^U, u_j^D, c_{j-0.5}^n\right) 
  \Big].
$$

Reconstructions (take $\theta =0$ or $\theta=1$):

$$
\begin{aligned}
u_i^R &= u_i + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_i) \, (u_i - u_{i-1})
        + \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_i}\right)(u_{i+1} - u_i), \\[3pt]
u_i^L &= u_i + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_i}\right)(u_i - u_{i+1})
        - \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_i)(u_i - u_{i-1}), \\[3pt]
u_j^U &= u_j + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_j)(u_j - u_{j-1})
        + \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_j}\right)(u_{j+1} - u_j), \\[3pt]
u_j^D &= u_j + \tfrac{\theta}{2} \, \psi\!\left(\tfrac{1}{R_j}\right)(u_j - u_{j+1})
        - \tfrac{1-\theta}{2} \, \psi(R_j)(u_j - u_{j-1}), \\[3pt]
R_i &= \frac{u_{i+1}-u_i}{u_i - u_{i-1}}, 
\quad R_j = \frac{u_{j+1}-u_j}{u_j - u_{j-1}} .
\end{aligned}
$$

Fluxes:

$$
\begin{aligned} 
F\left(u_i^R, u_{i+1}^L, c_{i+0.5}\right) &= c_{i+0.5}^{+} u_i^R + c_{i+0.5}^{-} u_{i+1}^L, \\
F\left(u_{i-1}^R, u_i^L, c_{i-0.5}\right) &= c_{i-0.5}^{+} u_{i-1}^R + c_{i-0.5}^{-} u_i^L, \\
F\left(u_j^U, u_{j+1}^D, c_{j+0.5}\right) &= c_{j+0.5}^{+} u_j^U + c_{j+0.5}^{-} u_{j+1}^D, \\
F\left(u_{j-1}^U, u_j^D, c_{j-0.5}\right) &= c_{j-0.5}^{+} u_{j-1}^U + c_{j-0.5}^{-} u_j^D.
\end{aligned}
$$

There are two limiter regions suitable for incompressible flow (depending on $\theta=0,1$). One can define new limiting functions $\psi$ in these regions, for new finite difference and finite volume methods. 

 Define your own limiter function using desmos:
 [https://www.desmos.com/calculator/zxxr80vkyf](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/zxxr80vkyf)

 <iframe src="https://www.desmos.com/calculator/zxxr80vkyf?embed" width="500" height="500" style="border: 1px solid #ccc" frameborder=0></iframe>

<!-- 

Here are some:  -->
<!-- <br/><img src='/images/Limiters.png'> -->
